README.md, before:

# Kevin Pearse Art

Kevin Pearse Art is a site that hopes to showcase artist Kevin Pearse's work to engage and maximise his audience and customers. This site will be targeted towards fans of art and therefore will prioritise images of the artist's work in a well presented manner. The purpose of the site will be to showcase the art, to give information about the artist and upcoming events, and to allow the user to contact the artist. Kevin Pearse Art will be useful to potential customers of Kevin Pearse as they will be able to contact the seller and know where to find his upcoming events. It will also be useful to the artist Kevin Pearse in order to showcase his work. Due to the site showcasing art, the colour palette is particularly important. For this reason, the colours used on the website have been taken from a painting by the artist himself that will be the hero image. This feature will be beneficial to the artist and the user as it creates a cohesive website, showcasing Kevin Pearse's work through and through.

![Responsive Mockup](docs/readmeimages/mockup.png)

## User Stories

## UX

## Project Goals:
The primary goal of Kevin Pearse Art is to promote and showcase the artwork of artist Kevin Pearse in a clear and aesthetically pleasing way. The website should include the artist’s work, information about the artist, a way for the user to contact the artist, and any future events the artist’s work is featured at. The target audience (and therefore the targeted external user) for this site will be people who like and engage with art and artists.

### External user goals:
External user goals are:
1. To see the artwork and be able to navigate the website in a clear way.
2. To learn a little about the artist.
3. To have the ability to easily contact the artist should they have any queries.
4. To know about any upcoming events that features the artist’s work.
5. To have access to the artist’s relevant social media.

### Kevin Pearse Art seeks to meet these needs by:
1. Ensuring the site is easy and clear to navigate, prioritising visualising the art as showcasing the art is the ultimate purpose of the site.
2. Having a section for the artist to say a little about himself (in his own words) and include an image of the artist alongside this. By including this section on the Home page, the user will gain context about the artist and his art before seeing the extent of the art on the subsequent Gallery page.
3. Including a Contact page wherein the external user is able to easily send a message to the artist. After filling in their name and email, the user will be able to send a message and be taken to a Thank You page to ensure they know the artist has received said message.
4. Informing the external user of any upcoming events featuring the artist’s work. This will include titles of said events and their locations.
5. Implementing social media links within the Footer of the site, represented by their relevant icons. When clicked, the links will open into a separate tab, to ensure a good user experience. This will allow the user to access the artist’s social media efficiently without having to leave the page and without the page appearing to be cluttered.

### Site owner/Artist’s goals:
The site owner is the artist, Kevin Pearse. His goals are:
1. To showcase and publicise his artwork in a clear way.
2. To introduce himself to existing and future potential customers/supporters.
3. To further network within the artists’ community.
4. To be able to receive messages from potential customers/supporters.
5. To publicise and inform of any future exhibitions.
6. For any social media to be easily accessible, to further promote his work.

Kevin Pearse Art seeks to meet these needs by:
1. Prioritising the images of the artwork above all else, including at least one image of the artwork on each page. The pages themselves will be easy to navigate and will be clear in design to ensure the focus is primarily on the paintings.
2. Including a section where the artist is able to introduce himself (in his own words) alongside an image of himself. Kevin Pearse will be able to contextualise the artwork and ensure a more personal feel to the site through doing this.
3. Presenting a body of work that reflects the style of the artist. This allows other artists to see and understand a little about the art and artist, and further establish Kevin Pearse within the art world.
4. Implementing a contact page wherein the artist is able to receive messages from potential customers/supporters. When filled in, the artist will be sent the user’s name, email, and message, and therefore can use the email to respond to the user, extending communication with his audience.
5. Informing the external user of any upcoming events featuring the artist’s work. This will include titles of said events and their locations. By presenting this information in a clear and specific way, the user is more likely to attend an exhibition.
6. Including social media links within the Footer of the site, represented by their relevant icons. When clicked, the links will open into a separate tab, to ensure a good user experience. By including these links within the Footer, potential supporters/customers are able to access the artist’s social media on every page of the website, increasing the likelihood of engagement from the external user.


[Wireframes](docs/readmewireframes)

## Features

### Existing Features

- __Navigation Bar__

  - Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Home page, Gallery and Contact page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
  - This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.

![Nav Bar](docs/readmeimages/Nav.png)

- __The hero image__

  - The hero image includes a photograph of a painting by artist Kevin Pearse. It does not include text overlay as the artist felt this would take the user away from admiring the artist's work, which is the goal of the image. The painting itself has the place name "Aberaeron" visible on a boat, giving context to the user of the places and scenes the artist features in his work.
  - The colour palette for the website has been used using this hero image, creating a cohesive experience for the user.

![Hero Image](docs/readmeimages/heroimage.png)

- __About Me section__

  - The About Me section allows the user to know a little about the artist. The About Me section is written by the artist in order to create a more personal feel to the website. Alongside the artist's words is an image of the artist. 
  - By including the About Me section on the home page, the artist is able to introduce himself in a more personal way and give context to his paintings before users and therefore potential customers and supporters delve into his art on the subsequent page of the Gallery.

![About Me](docs/readmeimages/aboutme.png)

- __Upcoming events section__

  - This section will allow the user to know when and where the artist will feature his work. It is beneficial for the artist to promote these events in order to sell his art.
  - Underneath the address' for the events are maps of said events. This allows the user to find the address' with ease and therefore is more likely to entice the user to the event.
  - This section will be updated as more events take place to keep the user up to date.

![Upcoming Events](docs/readmeimages/upcomingevents.png)

- __The Footer__

  - The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Kevin Pearse. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media and continue raising the artists' profile.

![Footer](docs/readmeimages/footer.png)

- __Gallery__

  - The gallery will provide the user with images of the artists' paintings to showcase the artists' work and gain support.
  - This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to browse the paintings clearly before potentially visiting and event of the artist or contacting the artist via the Contact page. This section is highly valuable to the artist as this showcases his work to potential customers and supporters.
  - On mobile screens, the gallery changes from being four columns to one column in order to ensure that the user can inspect and enjoy the images with ease. The purpose of the website is to showcase the artist's paintings, and therefore, it is of the upmost importance that the images are easy to see.
  - Should and image not load, alternative text is included with each image to ensure the user knows the kind of paintings the artist creates.

![Gallery](docs/readmeimages/gallery.png)

 __The Contact Image__

- This section includes an image of a painting from the artist. Due to the website being to promote and showcase the artists' work, an image of the art is valuable on each page to entice the user to becoming buyers and/or supporters.
- The image featuring lots of blue ties in with the colour palette used on the rest of the website.

![Contact Image](docs/readmeimages/contactimg.png)

- __The Contact Section__

  - This page will allow the user to contact the artist directly. The user will be instructed to write their name, email, and send a message of their choosing to the artist. This section is purposefully not too specific in its instructions as the messages from potential users could be in regards to ordering potentially through contacting the artist himself or in order to gain more information about the upcoming events.

![Contact](docs/readmeimages/contact.png)

### Features Left to Implement

- A feature I would like to implement would be a shop page, represented by a trolley icon in the navigation menu, in order to purchase any paintings directly from the website itself rather than contacting the seller.

## Testing

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your project’s features and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

### Validator Testing

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

### Unfixed Bugs

You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed.

## Deployment

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
  - From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch
  - Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here - <https://mipear.github.io/KP---Project-1/>

## Credits

- This project was done following along to the Code Institute tutorials, nameley, the Love Running Project and the Resume mini project.
- Bootstrap was incredibly useful in creating the Upcoming Events section in a responsive way.
- In order to

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project.

### Content

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- In order to create a pallet of colours, I used [Coolors.co](https://coolors.co/image-picker) and created my pallet via the artist's hero image painting.

### Media

- The images used across all pages of the website are owned by Kevin Pearse, the artist this website showcases.
- The wireframes within the README.md were created using [Balsamiq] (<https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#>)

Congratulations on completing your Readme, you have made another big stride in the direction of being a developer!

## Other General Project Advice

Below you will find a couple of extra tips that may be helpful when completing your project. Remember that each of these projects will become part of your final portfolio so it’s important to allow enough time to showcase your best work!

- One of the most basic elements of keeping a healthy commit history is with the commit message. When getting started with your project, read through [this article](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) by Chris Beams on How to Write  a Git Commit Message
  - Make sure to keep the messages in the imperative mood

- When naming the files in your project directory, make sure to consider meaningful naming of files, point to specific names and sections of content.
  - For example, instead of naming an image used ‘image1.png’ consider naming it ‘landing_page_img.png’. This will ensure that there are clear file paths kept.

- Do some extra research on good and bad coding practices, there are a handful of useful articles to read, consider reviewing the following list when getting started:
  - [Writing Your Best Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/writing-your-best-code/)
  - [HTML & CSS Coding Best Practices](https://medium.com/@inceptiondj.info/html-css-coding-best-practice-fadb9870a00f)
  - [Google HTML/CSS Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html#General)

Getting started with your Portfolio Projects can be daunting, planning your project can make it a lot easier to tackle, take small steps to reach the final outcome and enjoy the process!

Commit message:

Added colour palette section to README.md

README.md, after:

# Kevin Pearse Art

Kevin Pearse Art is a site that hopes to showcase artist Kevin Pearse's work to engage and maximise his audience and customers. This site will be targeted towards fans of art and therefore will prioritise images of the artist's work in a well presented manner. The purpose of the site will be to showcase the art, to give information about the artist and upcoming events, and to allow the user to contact the artist. Kevin Pearse Art will be useful to potential customers of Kevin Pearse as they will be able to contact the seller and know where to find his upcoming events. It will also be useful to the artist Kevin Pearse in order to showcase his work. Due to the site showcasing art, the colour palette is particularly important. For this reason, the colours used on the website have been taken from a painting by the artist himself that will be the hero image. This feature will be beneficial to the artist and the user as it creates a cohesive website, showcasing Kevin Pearse's work through and through.

![Responsive Mockup](docs/readmeimages/mockup.png)

## User Stories

## UX

## Project Goals:
The primary goal of Kevin Pearse Art is to promote and showcase the artwork of artist Kevin Pearse in a clear and aesthetically pleasing way. The website should include the artist’s work, information about the artist, a way for the user to contact the artist, and any future events the artist’s work is featured at. The target audience (and therefore the targeted external user) for this site will be people who like and engage with art and artists.

### External user goals:
External user goals are:
1. To see the artwork and be able to navigate the website in a clear way.
2. To learn a little about the artist.
3. To have the ability to easily contact the artist should they have any queries.
4. To know about any upcoming events that features the artist’s work.
5. To have access to the artist’s relevant social media.

### Kevin Pearse Art seeks to meet these needs by:
1. Ensuring the site is easy and clear to navigate, prioritising visualising the art as showcasing the art is the ultimate purpose of the site.
2. Having a section for the artist to say a little about himself (in his own words) and include an image of the artist alongside this. By including this section on the Home page, the user will gain context about the artist and his art before seeing the extent of the art on the subsequent Gallery page.
3. Including a Contact page wherein the external user is able to easily send a message to the artist. After filling in their name and email, the user will be able to send a message and be taken to a Thank You page to ensure they know the artist has received said message.
4. Informing the external user of any upcoming events featuring the artist’s work. This will include titles of said events and their locations.
5. Implementing social media links within the Footer of the site, represented by their relevant icons. When clicked, the links will open into a separate tab, to ensure a good user experience. This will allow the user to access the artist’s social media efficiently without having to leave the page and without the page appearing to be cluttered.

### Site owner/Artist’s goals:
The site owner is the artist, Kevin Pearse. His goals are:
1. To showcase and publicise his artwork in a clear way.
2. To introduce himself to existing and future potential customers/supporters.
3. To further network within the artists’ community.
4. To be able to receive messages from potential customers/supporters.
5. To publicise and inform of any future exhibitions.
6. For any social media to be easily accessible, to further promote his work.

Kevin Pearse Art seeks to meet these needs by:
1. Prioritising the images of the artwork above all else, including at least one image of the artwork on each page. The pages themselves will be easy to navigate and will be clear in design to ensure the focus is primarily on the paintings.
2. Including a section where the artist is able to introduce himself (in his own words) alongside an image of himself. Kevin Pearse will be able to contextualise the artwork and ensure a more personal feel to the site through doing this.
3. Presenting a body of work that reflects the style of the artist. This allows other artists to see and understand a little about the art and artist, and further establish Kevin Pearse within the art world.
4. Implementing a contact page wherein the artist is able to receive messages from potential customers/supporters. When filled in, the artist will be sent the user’s name, email, and message, and therefore can use the email to respond to the user, extending communication with his audience.
5. Informing the external user of any upcoming events featuring the artist’s work. This will include titles of said events and their locations. By presenting this information in a clear and specific way, the user is more likely to attend an exhibition.
6. Including social media links within the Footer of the site, represented by their relevant icons. When clicked, the links will open into a separate tab, to ensure a good user experience. By including these links within the Footer, potential supporters/customers are able to access the artist’s social media on every page of the website, increasing the likelihood of engagement from the external user.


[Wireframes](docs/readmewireframes)

## Features

### Existing Features

- __Navigation Bar__

  - Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Home page, Gallery and Contact page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
  - This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.

![Nav Bar](docs/readmeimages/Nav.png)

- __The hero image__

  - The hero image includes a photograph of a painting by artist Kevin Pearse. It does not include text overlay as the artist felt this would take the user away from admiring the artist's work, which is the goal of the image. The painting itself has the place name "Aberaeron" visible on a boat, giving context to the user of the places and scenes the artist features in his work.
  - The colour palette for the website has been used using this hero image, creating a cohesive experience for the user.

![Hero Image](docs/readmeimages/heroimage.png)

- __About Me section__

  - The About Me section allows the user to know a little about the artist. The About Me section is written by the artist in order to create a more personal feel to the website. Alongside the artist's words is an image of the artist. 
  - By including the About Me section on the home page, the artist is able to introduce himself in a more personal way and give context to his paintings before users and therefore potential customers and supporters delve into his art on the subsequent page of the Gallery.

![About Me](docs/readmeimages/aboutme.png)

- __Upcoming events section__

  - This section will allow the user to know when and where the artist will feature his work. It is beneficial for the artist to promote these events in order to sell his art.
  - Underneath the address' for the events are maps of said events. This allows the user to find the address' with ease and therefore is more likely to entice the user to the event.
  - This section will be updated as more events take place to keep the user up to date.

![Upcoming Events](docs/readmeimages/upcomingevents.png)

- __The Footer__

  - The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Kevin Pearse. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.
  - The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media and continue raising the artists' profile.

![Footer](docs/readmeimages/footer.png)

- __Gallery__

  - The gallery will provide the user with images of the artists' paintings to showcase the artists' work and gain support.
  - This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to browse the paintings clearly before potentially visiting and event of the artist or contacting the artist via the Contact page. This section is highly valuable to the artist as this showcases his work to potential customers and supporters.
  - On mobile screens, the gallery changes from being four columns to one column in order to ensure that the user can inspect and enjoy the images with ease. The purpose of the website is to showcase the artist's paintings, and therefore, it is of the upmost importance that the images are easy to see.
  - Should and image not load, alternative text is included with each image to ensure the user knows the kind of paintings the artist creates.

![Gallery](docs/readmeimages/gallery.png)

 __The Contact Image__

- This section includes an image of a painting from the artist. Due to the website being to promote and showcase the artists' work, an image of the art is valuable on each page to entice the user to becoming buyers and/or supporters.
- The image featuring lots of blue ties in with the colour palette used on the rest of the website.

![Contact Image](docs/readmeimages/contactimg.png)

- __The Contact Section__

  - This page will allow the user to contact the artist directly. The user will be instructed to write their name, email, and send a message of their choosing to the artist. This section is purposefully not too specific in its instructions as the messages from potential users could be in regards to ordering potentially through contacting the artist himself or in order to gain more information about the upcoming events.

![Contact](docs/readmeimages/contact.png)

## Colours

Due to the purpose of Kevin Pearse Art being to showcase and promote the artist's work, colour has been particularly paid attention to. It was important to the artist that the presentation of colours was simplistic in order to emphasise the artwork itself. At the same time, it was significant for the colours to feel cohssive to the artist's work. To meed these needs, the website has used a palette of colours only from the hero image of the page. This was done using the website [Coolors.co]'s (https://coolors.co/image-picker) feature as seen below:
![Hero Image Colour Palette](docs/readmeimages/colours.png)
As so much of Kevin Pearse's artwork featuring nature and, more spcifically, the sea, two shades of blue has primarily been used within text. This use of colour encourages the user's association between the website and nature, nature and art, and is representative of the artist who says in the About Me that he paints plein air. 

### Features Left to Implement

- A feature I would like to implement would be a shop page, represented by a trolley icon in the navigation menu, in order to purchase any paintings directly from the website itself rather than contacting the seller.

## Testing

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your project’s features and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

### Validator Testing

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Fcode-institute-org.github.io%2Flove-running-2.0%2Findex.html)
- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

### Unfixed Bugs

You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed.

## Deployment

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
  - In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
  - From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch
  - Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here - <https://mipear.github.io/KP---Project-1/>

## Credits

- This project was done following along to the Code Institute tutorials, nameley, the Love Running Project and the Resume mini project.
- Bootstrap was incredibly useful in creating the Upcoming Events section in a responsive way.
- In order to

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media and extra help from. It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials, however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

You can break the credits section up into Content and Media, depending on what you have included in your project.

### Content

- The text for the Home page was taken from Wikipedia Article A
- Instructions on how to implement form validation on the Sign Up page was taken from [Specific YouTube Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/)
- The icons in the footer were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
- In order to create a palette of colours, I used [Coolors.co](https://coolors.co/image-picker) and created my palette via the artist's hero image painting.

### Media

- The images used across all pages of the website are owned by Kevin Pearse, the artist this website showcases.
- The wireframes within the README.md were created using [Balsamiq] (<https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#>)

Congratulations on completing your Readme, you have made another big stride in the direction of being a developer!

## Other General Project Advice

Below you will find a couple of extra tips that may be helpful when completing your project. Remember that each of these projects will become part of your final portfolio so it’s important to allow enough time to showcase your best work!

- One of the most basic elements of keeping a healthy commit history is with the commit message. When getting started with your project, read through [this article](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) by Chris Beams on How to Write  a Git Commit Message
  - Make sure to keep the messages in the imperative mood

- When naming the files in your project directory, make sure to consider meaningful naming of files, point to specific names and sections of content.
  - For example, instead of naming an image used ‘image1.png’ consider naming it ‘landing_page_img.png’. This will ensure that there are clear file paths kept.

- Do some extra research on good and bad coding practices, there are a handful of useful articles to read, consider reviewing the following list when getting started:
  - [Writing Your Best Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/writing-your-best-code/)
  - [HTML & CSS Coding Best Practices](https://medium.com/@inceptiondj.info/html-css-coding-best-practice-fadb9870a00f)
  - [Google HTML/CSS Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/htmlcssguide.html#General)

Getting started with your Portfolio Projects can be daunting, planning your project can make it a lot easier to tackle, take small steps to reach the final outcome and enjoy the process!
